Added security.txt (#699)
AlmaLinux/almalinux.org: content/p/vulnerability-disclosure-policy.md

---
title: "Vulnerability disclosure policy"
type: p
---

Do you think you've found a security flaw in AlmaLinux OS or one of our related projects? Read below for how to responsibly report it!

## Reporting a Vulnerability

> - [Our security.txt file](/security.txt).

> Taking the time to report a security vulnerability to us is greatly appreciated, and we will use ever resource at our disposal to respect your time during the reporting process. When reporting an issue, please provide **as much information** as possible, but at least:

Reviewer: `s/ever/every/`

- The project and version (even better if you can identify the specific commit) where you identified the vulnerability
- A detailed description of the steps to reproduce 
- If appropriate, please include a proof of concept (plaintext only; no binaries)
- Please also include your recommended remediation(s), if any, or any other concerns.

> #### Do Not Send:
> - Sensitive or personal information.

> > - Public disclosures of vulnerabilities.

Reviewer: Is this intended to not have CVE's that are already published from being sent to us for remediation?

Author: No, I meant not to publicly share the vulnerability, I see the issues with writing that, I'll remove that line 🙃.

Our maintainers will attempt to respond to and confirm your report within 2-3 days, but if you believe your report to be *critical* to user safety and security, please note as such in the subject. We are fortunate enough to have hundreds of thousands of systems relying on the expertise of the AlmaLinux OS Team, and we take security very seriously.

## Example Report

```text

> - **Title**: Failed to start OSBuild Composer

Reviewer: Is this a placeholder report? It doesn't look security related.

Author: I just took one from bugs.almalinux.org, I can do one with [CVE-2024-1086](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-1086) if you thing it's appropriate.

Reviewer 2: I'd say that most of the time, security advisories related to the 99% of the packages in AlmaLinux OS will be reported upstream. Maybe we can think of a good example to put here, like, dunno something related to a vulnerability in one of our github workflows, or something specific to one of our packages or our images. More ideas are welcome.

Reviewer 3: @Noam-Alum let's adjust to something that isn't real for this one, as I don't think we have an example we can use. Give this a try: 

- **Title**: Flaw in mouse_pretend_package prevents cat_catch_mouse from starting
- 
- **Environment** (list all tested or believed to be impacted): AlmaLinux 8, Platform: X86_64, OS Version: 8.5

- **Description**:
    I am unable to start cat_catch_mouse. When I try to start, I see the following error:

    [root@localhost ~]# systemctl status cat_catch_mouse
    Month 08 00:18:43 localhost.localdomain systemd[1]: cat_catch_mouse.service: Failed with result 'exit-code'.
    Month 08 00:18:43 localhost.localdomain systemd[1]: cat_catch_mouse.service: Service RestartSec=100ms expired, scheduling restart.
    Month 08 00:18:43 localhost.localdomain systemd[1]: cat_catch_mouse.service: Start request repeated too quickly.
    Month 08 00:18:43 localhost.localdomain systemd[1]: Failed to start CatCatchMouse.

- **Steps to Reproduce**:

< insert all the steps that are necessary to reproduce the error. For example: >

    1. Install AlmaLinux 8.4 and update to 8.5.
    2. Run `sudo dnf install mouse_pretend_package`.
    3. Run `sudo systemctl enable --now cat_catch_mouse`.
    4. Try running `./alma_cat --list-all-mice`

- **Expected Result**: We catch all the mice and see an output of "below is a list of all mice that have been caught".

- **Actual Result**: `cat_catch_mouse.service` stops immediately with an exit code error.

- **Severity**: Urgent

Author: @bennyvasquez I changed the placeholder report to the one you've supplied here, I also changed all links that point to the security.txt file to the new path.

        Process: 1657 ExecStart=/usr/libexec/osbuild-composer/osbuild-composer (code=exited, status=1/FAILURE)
        Main PID: 1657 (code=exited, status=1/FAILURE)

    Feb 08 00:18:43 localhost.localdomain systemd[1]: osbuild-composer.service: Failed with result 'exit-code'.
    Feb 08 00:18:43 localhost.localdomain systemd[1]: osbuild-composer.service: Service RestartSec=100ms expired, scheduling restart.
    Feb 08 00:18:43 localhost.localdomain systemd[1]: osbuild-composer.service: Start request repeated too quickly.
    Feb 08 00:18:43 localhost.localdomain systemd[1]: Failed to start OSBuild Composer.

- **Steps to Reproduce**:
    1. Install AlmaLinux 8.4 and update to 8.5.
    2. Run `sudo dnf install osbuild-composer composer-cli cockpit-composer bash-completion`.
    3. Run `sudo systemctl enable --now osbuild-composer.socket`.
    4. Try running `composer-cli blueprint list` or start the image builder service in Cockpit.

- **Expected Result**: The OS build composer should start without issues.

- **Actual Result**: `osbuild-composer.service` stops immediately with an exit code error.

- **Severity**: Urgent
```

> ## Where to Report
> 
> - For issues that are directly related to the AlmaLinux operating system itself, please send your report to [bugs.almalinux.org](https://bugs.almalinux.org), this insures that your report is received by the right people.
> 
> - For **non OS-related** reports (.e.g Elevate, almalinxu.org website, etc), send your report to [security@almalinux.org](mailto:security@almalinux.org) directly so we can coordinate a responsible patch and release.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Where to Report

- For any issue that requires a coordinated release, send your report to [security@almalinux.org](mailto:security@almalinux.org) directly so we can coordinate a responsible patch and release.

- For issues that are directly related to the AlmaLinux operating system itself and do not require coordinated disclosure, please send your report to [bugs.almalinux.org](https://bugs.almalinux.org), this ensures that your report is received by the right people.

- For **non OS-related** reports (.e.g Elevate, almalinux.org website, etc), open an issue on the GitHub repo for that part of the project. 
```
This was my mistake when communicating what I wanted this to say. Sorry, @Noam-Alum!

        Process: 1657 ExecStart=/usr/libexec/osbuild-composer/osbuild-composer (code=exited, status=1/FAILURE)
        Main PID: 1657 (code=exited, status=1/FAILURE)

    Feb 08 00:18:43 localhost.localdomain systemd[1]: osbuild-composer.service: Failed with result 'exit-code'.
    Feb 08 00:18:43 localhost.localdomain systemd[1]: osbuild-composer.service: Service RestartSec=100ms expired, scheduling restart.
    Feb 08 00:18:43 localhost.localdomain systemd[1]: osbuild-composer.service: Start request repeated too quickly.
    Feb 08 00:18:43 localhost.localdomain systemd[1]: Failed to start OSBuild Composer.

- **Steps to Reproduce**:
    1. Install AlmaLinux 8.4 and update to 8.5.
    2. Run `sudo dnf install osbuild-composer composer-cli cockpit-composer bash-completion`.
    3. Run `sudo systemctl enable --now osbuild-composer.socket`.
    4. Try running `composer-cli blueprint list` or start the image builder service in Cockpit.

- **Expected Result**: The OS build composer should start without issues.

- **Actual Result**: `osbuild-composer.service` stops immediately with an exit code error.

- **Severity**: Urgent
```

## Where to Report

> - For any issue that requires a coordinated release, send your report to [security@almalinux.org](mailto:security@almalinux.org) directly so we can coordinate a responsible patch and release.

Reviewer 2: Question. Let's say that an upstream project has a fix for an embargoed vulnerability and that they want to coordinate its release with us. Does it make sense to, somehow, reflect here or elsewhere in the text?

Author: **IMO**

Is there a dedicated page for posting information on this matter? I believe it would be more appropriate to link to that page rather than addressing it here as its not directly related to the vulnerability disclosure policy.

Reviewer 2: I don't think there's a dedicated page for that, and don't have a strong opinion about putting it into a dedicated page vs adding some text in this one. Let's see what others think

Reviewer 3: Yeah, I don't think it needs to be a dedicated page. Right now that sort of coordination happens on a dedicated list that I-think-all of the major projects are part of, called the "distros list". Anyone that isn't part of that will recognize that they should be emailing security@, so I don't think we need to be more verbose than we have been thus far.

Author: Where can I view "distros list"? (Is it like distrowatch?)

Anyway, if it is linkable that's what I meant when I said "Is there a dedicated page for posting information on this matter" 🙃

Reviewer 3: This is the list (a private, invite-only email list that requires a sponsor and an application to join). https://oss-security.openwall.org/wiki/mailing-lists/distros  We could say something like "If you would like us to coordinate a release with you, we are active members on the [Distros list](https://oss-security.openwall.org/wiki/mailing-lists/distros), but you can also email us at security@".  What do y'all think of that?

Author: Oh I see, with that in mind I think we should just leave it as is.

- For issues that are directly related to the AlmaLinux operating system itself and do not require coordinated disclosure, please send your report to [bugs.almalinux.org](https://bugs.almalinux.org), this ensures that your report is received by the right people.

> - For **non OS-related** reports (.e.g Elevate, almalinux.org website, etc), open an issue on the GitHub repo for that part of the project. 

Reviewer 2: Which github repo(s)? can we provide a link here too?

Author: I think people that want to report about part of the project would have to find the respective GitHub repo.

Reviewer 2: Sure, maybe I wasn't clear enough, my bad. Since they need to find the right repo, we can provide a link to our github organization, or to https://github.com/orgs/AlmaLinux/repositories. What do you think?

#### Report using GitHub issues

> To report a vulnerability via GitHub issues, click on the `Issues` tab at the top of any repository and then click on the `New issue` button, then click on the `Report a vulnerability` button and fill out the form.

Reviewer 2: If not wrong, you need to click on `Security` and then on `Report a vulnerability`. Also, I believe that we need to enable `Private vulnerability reporting` in every repo. Wondering if it can be done at organization level

Author: This is referring to the new GitHub issue template. (In this PR and if accepted I would send a PR to all of our repos)

Reviewer 2: oh, I see that you added a template for those that don't require to be reported in private.
This process won't work in repos that don't have the issue template provided in the PR, and from my humble opinion, I'd prefer that every security-related report goes private by default.

Any thoughts?

Author: @bennyvasquez I think @javihernandez has made a good point, we should be using this method instead of creating a GitHub issue template IMO.

https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/security-advisories/working-with-repository-security-advisories/configuring-private-vulnerability-reporting-for-a-repository

What do you think? I can update the page as soon as I get home to match.

Reviewer: I like @javihernandez's idea as well.

Reviewer 3: I don't like limiting reporting to github, because not everyone has a github account, but everyone is willing to send an email. IIRC the need for a GH account was actually cited as a reason not to do that earlier this year when we were discussing it... somewhere.

Author: Because this is not directly connected to this PR, let's put the "report via GitHub" section aside and add it once this is settled.

Once you approve this I would remove this section for now, and I think we need to create an issue dedicated to this matter and add to it to restore the section.

Reviewer 3: Love that! Good job catching the scope creep. <3

Author: Alright then, I opened an Issue on AlmaLinux/,github, https://github.com/AlmaLinux/.github/issues/12 I hope this was the right place for that. :upside_down_face:
